epidural steroid injections can relieve
pain in the neck arms mid-back low back
or legs by decreasing inflammation in
areas of the spine
spinal inflammation can be caused by
common conditions such as spinal
stenosis disc herniation or degenerative
disc disease
for the procedure you will lie on your
stomach on a special table in our
diagnostic and therapeutic injection
suite a radiologist a medical doctor
with advanced training in imaging and
injections will perform the epidural
steroid injection using a special x-ray
technology called fluoroscopy that
allows them to see live images of your
spine on a computer screen using a
sterile technique the radiologist will
insert a thin needle into or adjacent to
the epidural space
first contrast material or dye is
injected to highlight the region and
ensure that the medication will be
delivered accurately then medication is
injected that consists of an
anti-inflammatory steroid to reduce
local inflammation that may be causing
your pain and depending on the location
of the injection it may also include a
local anesthetic to offer temporary pain
relief
your legs or arms may feel slightly weak
or numb directly following the injection
and you may begin to feel some initial
pain relief within 18 to 48 hours it may
take seven days for the medication to
reach its peak effects depending on the
amount of inflammation present
after your injection the radiologist
will review the images and provide your
doctor with a detailed report
epidural steroid injections can be a
single or an ongoing treatment for spine
related pain talk to your doctor about
the possibility of additional diagnostic
exams or treatment options